Title: MoonMan
Team Name: Satellite Gaming
Team members: Dylan Lee, Antonio Vega, Julian Ball, Zach McMichael, Adam Tutko

Introduction:
The project will be a 2-D side-scrolling video game in which waves of enemies will attack the player. The goal will be survival and getting the highest score. The motivation behind the project is to apply the group’s current programming abilities to build a custom game. A substantial motivating factor behind this was the want to create something unique and custom that is also based on the personal interests of each group member. The game will be implemented in Java to further the group members experience in a new programming language. This language will also allow for a smoother implementation of the project by utilizing the robust libraries already in existence. The project, while unique, is not a new concept. It will visually resemble some critically acclaimed games such as Mario while encompassing the battle style of Super Smash Bros. This will allow for a robust combat system while still allowing the vision to be implemented accurately. 

While this game will be a side-scroller it will not be designed as a platformer; instead, it will consist of one endless level in which waves of enemies attack the player. The player will have a selection of different weapons to combat the enemies, ranging from close range melee weapons to long-range projectile weapons. As the player makes further progress in the game by eliminating enemies, the option to upgrade their character and weapons will be provided. As the player progresses, the enemies will also increase in strength and number. This will allow for a simple way of increasing difficulty, without having to implement more features. The game will have a space theme, where the main character will be a spaceman in a moon suit similar to the ones used when landing on the moon. The enemies will be a multitude of different aliens designed with many different styles. 

To implement this game, the group will be programming in Java. This language will allow easy access to graphics libraries so that more focus can be put on the gameplay mechanics. The combat mechanics of the game will be based on hit-box detection and will utilize many different weapons. To create the appearance of an endless side-scrolling level, a base level will be designed and then replicated over and over. When the player walks to the edge of the game window, the screen shall move in the opposite direction to simulate movement. However, there shall be a window of movement in the middle of the screen for the character to move without the screen moving. This window will allow for a more smooth looking design when in combat. 


Customer Value:
This product is a widely recognized medium of entertainment called video gaming. It is a pass time that is done worldwide. The specific genre of videogame that was decided on, a side-scrolling two-dimensional game, has produced many beloved works over the years. Some examples of this would be Super Mario Brothers, Castlevania, and Sonic the Hedgehog. All of these games have received acclaim. Geek.com states "When people discuss their favorite video games of all time, there will no doubt be a number of side-scrollers mentioned." and then continues "...love them or hate them- there is no questioning their impact on gaming or the fact that some amazing side-scrollers have been released". As a form of entertainment, side-scrolling video games are a relatively easily implemented project. However, even though this genre is more easily implemented, it still holds a place of value in peoples hearts and minds. This means that while the product will not be entirely original, it already has a niche that could allow it to thrive.

Alongside this fact, the format of 2-D sidescrollers allows for a level of artistic license on how characters are designed. Pleasing and original ascetics appeal to the market much more than a standard visual representation. Often the art style of a game plays a significant role in how well its target audience receives it. The use of shading or less realistic representations of humans in three-dimensional games often helps its production. Examples of games that have taken advantage of this and have gained acclaim include Borderlands, Life is Strange, and the Walking Dead. These games are however limited slightly by the requirement to maintain the correct human form. Pixel art has more leeway in this area and therefore allows for a style that is closer in line with our vision. 

Overall, the benefits of choosing the 2-D sidescrolling format far outweigh the potential drawbacks. There are many examples of sidescrollers doing exceptionally well in recent years. One such example that stands out is Shovel Knight. It is a game closely follows the Castlevania style but puts a unique spin on it to make it stand alone. So, while achieving the same level of acclaim of past greats might not be likely, this product still has a place in the gaming industry. Alongside this, since there were previous iterations of our idea, excellent examples from which to draw inspiration are abundant. There is still plenty of room for an original spin on the genre. This means that utilizing previous work will be simple and allow for a clean implementation of the project without tainting to look too much like other works. 


Proposed Solution and Technology:
The coding will mostly be done in Java using Visual Studio Code and will utilize Javas many libraries to help produce the final product. Piscal, a free pixel art creator, will be used to create the characters and enemies. When starting, our process will be loosely based around choosing the best implementation of each persons work. We plan on deciding a goal and then letting every person on the team produce their idea of this assignment. This will allow everyone to gain a solid grasp on the basics of coding in Java and also allow for a more hands-on understanding of how game design works. After the team has a good handle on what needs to be done, we will begin to assign tasks to team members and rely on them to implement it how they see fit. This will allow for a trust that the team members will have the requisite knowledge needed to fulfill their task and will evenly share the workload between team members.

Our process will be split up into three phases. The first phase will be coding entirely to get a framework in place for our game to be played. The code in this phase will be focused on the implementation of the world being created. As such, the first step will be to create an infinitely side-scrolling screen from which to build off. The second phase will be focused on creating a playable character and making moving enemies. The code here will likely mostly be focused on how to make the characters move, jump, attack, and be attacked. The final phase will be focused on the creation of pixel art characters and linking them to the game as well as working on fixing any known bugs. If these tasks are finished early enough in the semester, we also plan to implement a low-level AI to play the game on its own.

Project Management: The time allowed to complete this project should be more than adequate. The hope is, that with the available resources that are built into Java the team should be able to complete the base game without very much difficulty. This will provide more time allowance for the small nuances in game mechanics, like combat, overall game feel, and game art. The team meets four times a week face to face to determine action plans and coordinate team planning as well as swapping strategies for completing our assigned tasks. The team will be held on a Monday to Monday schedule that will include being given a task on Monday and having it completed the following Monday or needing to push the due date a week back due to complications with its creation. 

The constraints that are imposed on this project consist of three major factors. The first is that the game created is not stealing or coping any that is on the market at the moment. This does not include taking ideas or using creative license to manipulate something out there in a new way, but specifically coping anything in a rebranded or reskinned way. The second is that anything premade or copied specifically to be used one to one on the project must have a open or free use license. This specifically will be used for parts of the music in the game. This will also include the software that we will be using to create this game some of which include Java, Piscal, VSCode, and many libraries that come for free use with this software. The third and final constraint is that the game be constrained to strict verbal and ethical guidelines that will coincide with proper University standards.
The project is scheduled to be completed on time with some margin for unforeseen circumstances. If for some reason though, the project is unfinished based on the final implementation that is conceive by the team at the start of the project, the result will still net a working game. Since the first step is to get a basic framework for the game and get the most basic game mechanics and functions implemented, this will for sure be in the game. Things that might not make it, if everything goes south, would include, high end animations and sound, complex combat mechanics, and complex menus and leveling mechanics. This strategy for game development should insure a base working game with less complexity but still a fun working version to play with. This will complete the original goal, if not whole heartedly, by delivering a 2d sidescrolling game.

